The app Structura attempts to help the potential user in the process of learning some basic data structures and the operations that can be performed on them.

Structura features each data structure divided into three fragments. The first one being play, the second one being the summary, and the third being the quiz. Each of these features were chosen to ensure the complete understanding of the data structure and also meet the requirements of different types of users. Each of the features is described below in detail.

1.	The first feature is the play fragment. The play fragment is the core of the app. It is the first step that any user takes towards understanding a specific data structure. This fragments enables the user to have a hands – on experience with the working of the data structure. In particular, the user gets a chance to “play” with the individual elements of the data structure using various buttons that correspond to various operations that can be performed on the data structure. The buttons enable inserting, deleting or searching an element in the data structure. 

    On clicking the buttons, the fragment shows the path that is taken to search for the element in the data structure for any operation by changing the color of the visited elements. This gives a better idea to the user about how an element is looked up for its existence in the structure, before any operation is performed on it. It also demonstrates how different data structures implement a search for an element.
    One more thing that this fragment has is the representation of the linked lists. Generally, linked list nodes are represented as boxes, with a partition, having the data and the next pointer. Structura has a different representation of the linked lists. Each node in the linked list is shown as a circle, just like a node in a tree. And, nodes are connected vertically to each other by edges. The main idea behind this was to have the user to think of linked lists as trees, with a branching factor of 1. This helps to prevent the users from having to remember many representations and concepts for different data structures.

2. 	The next feature is the summary fragment. As the play fragment is important for taking the first step in learning a new data structure, the summary fragment is necessary to keep the knowledge of already known data structures fresh in our minds. When we want to learn a new data structure, we go through process of understanding each operation on it on the play fragment, but when we already know them, but just can’t remember them, we might not want to spend our time doing all that. That’s where this feature comes in. The summary fragment will contain the important facts about the data structure, and its operations in a very concise manner. Thus, reading it will save time and refresh our knowledge about the data structure. The summary is particularly useful during exam times and preparing cheat sheets.

3. The final feature is the quiz fragment. As the other features are important in learning or refreshing our knowledge about data structures, this feature is necessary to test our knowledge. When we gain some knowledge, we need to get measure of how well we understand the concept. This feature provides simple multiple choice questions about the corresponding data structure, which is a quick way to test our confidence in a topic. It also allows us to point out the weak areas we need to concentrate on for a data structure. This feature is useful just before exams, interviews, etc.

So these were the features that we chose to implement in Structura. They provide a three step guide to mastering any data structure. Introduce yourself to it, revise the important concepts, and test your knowledge on it to get a better idea of which areas to concentrate on. 

These features not only meet most of the needs of a user, but they also meet specific needs of most of the users. Some of the scenarios that we can have are as follows:

a) Mario is a first year Computer Science student and he wants to get a head start on the topics taught in courses like CSC263. He downloads Structura and plays with the data structures of his liking in order to get a visual, interactive introduction to it. He enjoys how Structura enables him to do things that his textbook can’t.

b)  Lana is a second year student in majoring in Computer Science and Cognitive Science, and wants to quickly revise some concepts from the topics taught at the beginning of the semester. She uses Structura’s summary feature to read about the operations on a Binary Search Tree, and uses them in problems on AVL trees.

c) Steve is a third year Computer Engineering student preparing for his interviews at Google. He has revised everything but is nervous whether what he has done is enough or not. He is aware about Structura, and thus pulls it out on his phone, and attempts the quizzes on various data structures. He gets an average of 90% on them and now he feels much more confident about his interview.

So these were some times when an app like Sturctura comes in handy. We being students ourselves, understand the needs of one, and thus have tried to implement some useful features that act as tools that aid learning. Hope our effort is useful for someone.
